202309211309
Tags:

Core Question: "1.1.3 History of Statics and Dynamics"

>[!faq] Historical Development of Statics 
> Essentially, the subject of statics developed at a much earlier time due to its simplicity over dynamics as its principles can be derived simply by measuring geometries and forces. For example, Archimedes (287-212 B.C) dealt with the principle of the lever. Studies of the pulley, inclined plane, and wrench are also recorded in ancient writings, when the requirements for engineering were limited primarily to building construction.

>[!faq] Historical Development of Dynamics
>The principle of dynamics depend on accurate measurements of time, and hence this subject developed MUUUUCH later. Galileo Galilei (1564 - 1642) was one of the first to contribute to the studies of dynamics, consisting of experiments with pendulums and free falling bodies. However, the most significant contribution was made by the GOAT, Isaac Newton (1642-1727), who found the three fundamental laws of motion, AKA Newton's law of motion, and also the law of universal gravitational attraction. These laws were then found to be applicable in techniques of engineering applications by certain scientists and engineers, which will be mentioned later throughout this textbook. That's it!

>[!summary]
>Essentially, the history of statics came at a much earlier time than dynamics due to its sheer simplicity of just geometrical measurements and force measurements, and one early contributor was Archimedes (287 - 212 B.C). Studies of statics were also found in ancient writings on pulleys, inclined planes, etc, mostly stuff useful for construction due to its importance back in the day. Now, dynamics came at a much later time due to the importance of accurately measuring time, and Galileo Galilei was one of the first major contributors to this field with pendulums and free falling bodies, however, Isaac Newton had the most significant contribution to this field due to his three fundamental laws of motion, and the law of gravitational attraction. These laws are to be used everywhere in dynamics, or even in statics, for useful applications in the field of engineering (yay!?)
# References
R.C. Hibbeler Statics in SI Units 15th Edition, Page 26






